CHAPTER 6: COMBAT

Definition: Opponent
A creature one (or more) of your pack are in combat against. An ability which only targets or affects “opponents” can normally only
be used in combat.
Definition: Attack
1. The instigation of combat between the attacking creature and its target (e.g. King Albrecht attacks Zhyzhak).
2. A Combat Action which has a damage value (e.g. Dis-Arm, Dry Gulch).
Definition: Challenge
A request to enter combat with a member of another pack not eligible to be attacked (i.e. not an Alpha). May be refused. If accepted,
it becomes an attack. You may only challenge creatures. You can not challenge Territories or Battlefields.
Definition: Attacker
In a combat, the creature who made the attack or a creature in pack combat with another attacker.
Definition: Defender
In a combat, any creatures fighting against the attacker(s).

6.1 COMBAT DECLARATION

Combat begins when an alpha declares an attack against another alpha, an Enemy or a Victim. It can also begin after an alpha
attacks a Territory or challenges a non-alpha pack member. Certain sept cards can also initiate combat (e.g. Sneak Attack). In no
circumstances can a pack member attack a member of its own pack. A creature in the Hunting Grounds can not attack another
creature in the hunting grounds.General combat timing:
○ In each step of combat except the Declaration step, and where cards and abilities are playable, first the attacker,
then the defender, then other players have an opportunity to play cards and use abilities.
○ The cycle repeats until all players pass in sequence, then the combat moves to the next step.
○ Where multiple other players wish to play, decide the order randomly.
1. Declaration Step: Closed Play.
• Declare attacker and (intended) target.
• Attacker uses abilities or cards played during the attack declaration (including certain Combat Events such as Hunting Party).
• Defending player, if any, uses abilities or cards played during the attack declaration (Shieldmate is the only card at present).
2.. Pre-Combat step Closed Play. Each player may play cards which change the participants in the combat.
• This includes announcing Pack actions, defense of Territories, redirecting the attack, stepping in for Prey, defending a
Battlefield, combat cancelling, etc. This step continues until no players wish to use any more cards or abilities at this step.
• Changing the target of the attack has no affect on pack attacks already in effect.
• Changing the target of the attack does not cancel pack defences already played. If the target is changed to a creature not
participating in the pack defence, all members of the pack defence are removed from combat; however cards drawn for the
pack defence remain in the player’s combat hand until played or discarded normally (e.g. at the end of combat).
• Cards and abilities which create pack attacks or defences can be used later, in the beginning- of-combat step or between-
rounds step, except where restricted on the card.

2.. Pre-Combat step Closed Play. Each player may play cards which change the participants in the combat.
• This includes announcing Pack actions, defense of Territories, redirecting the attack, stepping in for Prey, defending a
Battlefield, combat cancelling, etc. This step continues until no players wish to use any more cards or abilities at this step.
• Changing the target of the attack has no affect on pack attacks already in effect.
• Changing the target of the attack does not cancel pack defences already played. If the target is changed to a creature not
participating in the pack defence, all members of the pack defence are removed from combat; however cards drawn for the
pack defence remain in the player’s combat hand until played or discarded normally (e.g. at the end of combat).
• Cards and abilities which create pack attacks or defences can be used later, in the beginning- of-combat step or between-
rounds step, except where restricted on the card.

3. Beginning-of-Combat step: Open Play.
• Each player may play relevant Open Play cards and abilities.
• This includes other before-combat events (such as a beginning-of-combat Frenzy),
Gifts to heighten the combat (Spirit of the Fray, for instance), and so forth.

6.2 COMBAT ROUNDS

Sidebar: Combat Events
A quick reminder: all Combat
Events are Combat Restricted.
Combat Events stay in play
until their effect ends.
Combat is divided into combat rounds, during which each player involved in the combat
plays a Combat Action for their creature(s). The cards are simultaneously revealed, and most
will do a certain amount of damage to the opponent. If a Combat Action causes damage to
an opponent, place that Combat Action under the affected creature as a damage card. If a
creature has damage greater than or equal to its health, it dies (see damage and Death).

The rigourous timing of combat rounds is:
1. Play Card step Each creature in combat may play a combat card face down.
• Players declare if creatures are using any weapons at this point; if nothing is said, it is assumed that creatures will use any
weapons they are carrying.
• Players do not have to play combat cards for all (or any of) their creatures in combat unless affected by Forced Play
2. Targetting Step Targets of combat cards are declared.
• Targets can be assigned to all combat cards, even if they need no target.
• Targets must both be in the same world (see rules on Umbral combat).
3. Reveal Step All face down combat cards are revealed.
• Creatures that are Feinting may play a card
• Instinctive cards can be played.
4. Bluff Step determine if cards will be discarded or will resolve in next step
• Discard all illegal cards.
• Check for whether bluffs succeed or fail and discard failures
• At the end of this step, the only combat cards left on the table should be ones that will be resolved in Resolution
5. Resolution Step
1. Fast Striking Actions resolve. Creatures removed from combat (e.g. killed) discard any unresolved Combat Actions they were
playing.
2. Normal actions resolve. Creatures removed from combat (e.g. killed) discard any unresolved Combat Actions they were
playing.
3. Slow Striking Actions resolve.
• Cards which redirect or prevent damage are used when the damage would hit. Cards which heal damage cannot be used
here.
• Where a creature takes damage at the same speed, the opponent decides which order the damage lands.
Non-frenzied creatures killed in combat are immediately removed from combat and sent to the appropriate Victory Pile
or discard pile.
6. Withdrawal Step: The attacker may announce a withdrawal, unless a creature is frenzied.
• Any effects which take effect (or end) “at the end of the round” happen (or end) now, before withdrawal.
• If the attacker announces a withdrawal, combat ends. If not, combat continues to the Between-rounds step.
7. Between-rounds step: Open Play.
• Each player may play relevant Open Play cards and abilities.
• After this step, start a new combat round at step 1.

6.3 ENDING COMBAT
Combat ends when:
● no creature played a Combat Action during the current combat round;
● there are no attackers or no defenders in the combat;
● the attacker withdraws from combat;
● or a card that forces combat to end is played.
● If one full round of combat passes where a creature has no valid targets, it is removed from the combat. See also
Umbral Combat
After every combat, all players refill their combat hand back up to their combat hand size (but cannot voluntarily discard
any cards before doing so). If a player runs out of combat cards in his combat deck, he immediately reshuffles his discarded
combat cards and may continue drawing from the deck.
6.3.1 Withdrawing
An attacker in combat may break off the attack (end combat) during the Withdrawal step of any combat round (including during
the first round of combat). Withdrawing is not an action. Withdrawing ends the whole combat, and abilities which force or
prevent withdrawal affect all attackers (e.g. Maim will prevent any attacker withdrawing, no matter how many atta

6.4 DAMAGE AND DEATH
Whenever a card - Combat Action or otherwise - damages a creature, it becomes a damage card on that creature. Damage cards
are placed under the creature so that the bottom of the card is showing. If the damage value of a damage card is increased or
decreased from its printed value, it should be marked in some way. Each damage card on a creature takes it closer to death. When
the damage on a creature equals or exceeds its health*, it dies. No amount of healing will bring the creature back at that point.
* Characters in breed form do not die at this point if they have a crinos form they can flip to. If a Character in Breed form takes
damage and its total damage is equal to or greater than its printed Rage or its printed Health, it flips to its crinos/battle form
(unless prevented from doing so). It only dies if its damage equal or exceeds its crinos-form Health.
If a Character is forced into breed form, and has suffered more damage than his breed form health, he is dead. If a Character is
forced to change forms, he can use a card that allows him to change back in order to cancel the change (e.g. Shapeshift, Fang
Necklace of Fenris): this acts as a cancellation of the effect. This does not include abilities which do not explicitly state on the card
that you may change forms.
6.4.1 Healing Damage
Definition: Aggravated damage- Aggravated damage is damage that cannot be regenerated, although it can be removed
and healed. Aggravated damage cards should be marked in some way.
Most Characters regenerate their damage card with the lowest damage during the Regeneration phase, but other cards can heal
or remove damage. When a damage card is healed, all ongoing effects caused by the damage end (e.g. Head Wound, Maim).
However, effects which have already taken place are not reversed (e.g. destroyed equipment), nor are effects cancelled if they are
not caused by the damage (e.g. Hamstringed, Body Wrack). Once a card resolves and becomes a damage card, it no longer counts
as its original card type and cannot be cancelled.

6.4.2 Death
Whenever a creature dies and is not in Full Frenzy:
• Discard all cards except Past Lives that are attached to dead creatures
• Take Past Lives and put them in the dead character’s owner’s Victory Pile
• Discard any Gifts or Rites with ongoing effects that only affect the deceased. Other ongoing and permanent effects played
by the deceased remain in play.•
Creatures killed in combat are placed in the Victory Pile of the player that
killed them. If they were killed by Prey, treat them as if they were died outside
combat

6.4.3 VP complications

Normally you earn VP equal to the renown of the creatures you kill. However, Wyrm
creatures normally gain 0 VP for killing Enemies. Gaia creatures normally gain 0 VP for
killing Victims. They WILL earn full VP if the Prey initiated the attack against them. Effects
which grant bonus VP to a kill (or reduce its VP) occur AFTER you determine whether you
received VP equal to the renown of the creature or not.

If you killed a creature but it was worth no Victory Points for some reason, it is still placed
in your Victory Pile. Some effects can also modify the value of kills in your Victory Pile. If
a separate card is not placed in the card to show you how the value is modified, mark the
modified card in some way to remind you how it was modified. See sidebar on suggestions
of how to mark this.

When determining who killed an creature, there can not be more than one killer. Who-
ever dealt the damage that killed it is the killer. (see Resolution Step) You can also have
circumstances where a creature died in combat but no creature directly killed it

If a creature dies while fighting against your pack, gain VP as if your pack killed it. However only if one creature kills another by
dealing it damage (as opposed to reducing its health or other means) does it count as a kill for that creature. Example: If Scar Throat
Leech-Killer is fighting a vampire and something is played that reduces the vampires health so it is now dead, Scar Throat does NOT
gain bonus victory points for the vampire because he did not kill it.

6.4.4 Death outside combat
If a creature dies outside combat, it is not worth Victory Points unless a card effects says otherwise. Characters killed in this way
are removed from the game. Other creatures are simply discarded to their owner’s sept discard pile.

6.5 COMBAT DECLARATION OPTIONS
A member of a pack may NEVER declare an attack or challenge against another member of his own pack, regardless of any card text.
Nor may Prey attack other Prey. Similarly, a player may NEVER play combat cards for creatures on both sides of a combat.
6.5.1 Attacking a creature
Combat will begin between the attacker and defender. Use the combat declaration sequence. An attack cannot be declared except as
an Alpha action or with a card ability. An attack can only be declared against valid targets: for alpha actions, that is (normally) another
alpha or Prey; valid targets for other attacks are determined by the card ability; a target becomes invalid if it cannot be attacked
across the Gauntlet or if the attacker is prevented from attacking it by some other effect (e.g. it is forced to attack something else).

6.5.2 Challenging
An alpha may challenge a member of another pack who is not their alpha. This is counted as an attack except that creature can
normally decline the challenge (in the defender section of the Declaration step). If the challenge is declined there is no combat and
the challenger’s alpha action is over.

6.5.3 Attacking a Battlefield
Battlefields can normally only be attacked as an Alpha action.

6.5.3.A Attacking a Battlefield
Battlefields can be attacked from either side of the Gauntlet but are assumed to exist only on the side they are attacked from for the
duration of the combat. When a Battlefield is attacked, it can be defended by another alpha or, if none is eligible or volunteers, it will
defend itself.
Defense by an alpha. Any Alpha that matches the Defender conditions may defend. This is considered a type of stepping in. It may
defend with a total renown of pack members, including the Alpha, up to the Defender Renown. This counts as a pack defense.
Self-defending. If no alpha defends the Battlefield, a single player will play for the Battlefield.

- The Battlefield will have Rage, Gnosis and Health equal to its Renown.
- The Battlefield automatically has the Keywords listed for the Defending Alpha (choose one if there are options).
- The defending player may also choose ONE additional creature Keyword to give the Battlefield. Examples of Keywords: Black Fury, Ahroun, Spirit, Kailindo (but not Fast or Slow Striking).
- Selecting the Spirit keyword allows the Battlefield to exist on both sides of the Gauntlet.

6.5.3.b Battlefield combat
Once defenders have been chosen, both sides draw the number of additional combat cards listed against the chosen attacker/chosen
defender and follow any special rules listed for attacker and defender. You cannot use additional cards to draw in more renown of
creatures or draw additional cards, unless they specifically mention Battlefields.

- Combat Events can be used as normal, but they will not add creatures or draw additional cards unless they specify they
work on the Battlefield. Their other effects will still take place. Example: if you play Frenzy, the frenzied creature still
fights until “hacked apart” but draws no cards for the frenzy.
- Any cards that refer to “yielding a Battlefield” means the attacker is withdrawing, as per normal Withdrawal rules..

6.5.4c Victory Points

- Self-defending: If you defeat the Battlefield put it in your Victory Pile where it is worth VP equal to its Renown. If you do
not defeat the Battlefield, any damage on it is healed at the end of combat.
- Defense by an alpha: Normally you only score VP for the creatures you kill in this combat except…
- Defense by an alpha, where one side sweeps the battlefield: that side puts the Battlefield in their Victory Pile where
it is worth VP equal to its Renown. You sweep the Battlefield if, at the end of the round, you still have creatures on the
- Battlefield but your opponent does not. This includes if the attacker Yields the Battlefield or withdraws

6.5.4 Attacking a Territory
Use the combat declaration sequence normally: combat will result if a pack member defends their territory.
If an alpha chooses to attack another pack’s Territory, that pack’s alpha may choose to defend the Territory. Defending a Territory
is an action. Either side may use pack tactics.
If the attacker kills the defender, or all defenders leave combat before the attackers, the Territory is destroyed and discarded. A
Territory is likewise destroyed if the pack controlling it does not choose to defend it or cannot do so (e.g. they have no alpha). If
the combat is ended prematurely, or the attacker withdraws, the Territory is not destroyed.
Territories exist in both worlds. If your alpha is in the Umbra and attacks a territory whose alpha is in the physical world, the
opposing alpha cannot defend the territory, and the territory is destroyed. (and vice versa) See Umbral combat.

6.5.5 Attacking to bind
When you attack a Spirit in the Hunting Grounds, if the attacker is in the Umbra, you may announce that you are attempting to
bind it instead. If you kill the Spirit while it is in this combat, instead heal all damage on it, including any damage that was on it
from previous combats, and it becomes an Ally of your pack. While it remains an Ally of your pack, the bound Spirit is worth half
its Renown (round up) in VP. The bound Spirit is worth VP as normal if it is killed by an opponent. Players only get victory points for
binding Spirits if they bind them as a result of attacking them to bind.
Binding a spirit does not actually kill the spirit and no effect that is triggered by killing a creature will be triggered by binding a spirit.
If you attempted to bind a spirit and did not do enough damage to “kill” it, the damage remains on it after combat ends.
Wyrm creatures can get VP for binding Spirit Enemies. Gaia creatures can get VP for binding Spirit Victims.

6.5.6 Forced Attacks
In some cases, an effect will force an attacker to declare an attack against a particular target. The attacker may not be forced to attack
a non-valid target (see Attacking a creature). If the attacker is forced to attack multiple targets, he may select which of the targets to
attack (alphas do not get multiple alpha actions to attack each one). In most cases, alphas can choose to pass or take an alternate
Alpha action that does not involve attacking rather than make a forced attack.
If an ability prevents an otherwise forced attack (e.g. that alpha you have a rivalry with has a Flower of Aphrodite), the creature is no
longer forced to attack that target as it is not a valid target. (see attacking a creature)

6.5.7 Attack restrictions
Various card effects and rules effects (such as Loyalty) can prevent you attacking a specific creature or other target. When the
attacker can’t attack a target, it means:
- They cannot declare attacks against the target.
- They cannot voluntarily join a pack attack against the target (but will do so if the effect is “automatic” or brings in your
whole pack).
It has no effect on playing Combat Actions or choosing targets for Combat Actions.
Challenging is a type of attack. You can not challenge things you can not attack.

6.5.8 Pack combat
Cards and abilities which let you pack attack or defend can be played and used in the precombat step, beginning-of-combat step or a
between-rounds step, except as limited by the card. (E.g. Cub’s Cry can be used “between rounds of combat”, i.e. only in a between-
rounds step.) Notable exceptions Hunting Party, Attacking the Wyrm and Ass Whuppin’ Lynch Mob which can only be played during
the Declaration step.
Some creatures can automatically join pack combat or draw others into combat. An ability which says this creature can pack attack
or defend with that creature means that, as per the circumstances on the card, this creature can join in pack attack or defence (e.g.
Dreams-of-Wonder can join in pack attack or defence in any combat in which one of her Spirit Allies is already fighting). These abili-
ties can be used even if that creature was brought into pack combat by some other means. E.g. if Blood-on-the-Wind pack attacks
with Allison Kachina and Dreams-of-Wonder, Allison can bring her brother, and Dreams can bring in her Spirit buddies.
Creatures pack defending in the Hunting Ground works the same way.
You cannot bring creatures from outside your pack into pack combat nor pack defend with creatures in the Hunting Ground unless
specifically stated on a card. Similarly, if a card does let you bring in creatures from outside your pack, you cannot bring in creatures
such that a creature is in a pack with the target of its Rivalry.

6.5.9 Stepping in
A Gaia Alpha may, at his option, step in place of a Victim when an attack has been declared against that Victim. Likewise, a Wyrm
Alpha may step in and defend for an Enemy when an attack is declared against that Enemy. It is not considered the creature’s Alpha
action to “step in” in this manner but it is an action.
If two alphas want to step in and defend, the creature with the highest Renown gets to do so (decide ties randomly). See Umbral
Combat for how that affects stepping in.

6.6 PLAY-CARD STEP OPTIONS
6.6.1 Multiple Cards
Sometimes a creature will be able to play multiple Combat Actions during a round. These are considered separate Combat Actions,
and may be targeted at different opponents.
When one side has multiple combat cards played at the same time, the controlling player may determine the order that the blows
land when they damage their targets. This is particularly important when the damage would kill a creature (due to death blow
abilities such as Taking the Death Blow or the VP bonus of Scar Throat Leech-Killer). A creature is considered killed by the creature
who played the fatal damage card.
6.6.2 Pack actions
Certain cards allow groups of creatures to enter combat as packs, much like normal wolves. A pack action is any combat in which
you have more than one member of your pack in combat at the same time (or, if playing for prey, when prey pack defend). In a pack
action, you have multiple creatures on your side of combat, and each is able to play Combat Actions. A pack defence is a pack combat
for the defending side (creatures which automatically pack defend join the defender in a pack defence). A pack attack is a pack action
for the attacking side (creatures which automatically pack attack join the attacker in a pack attack).

In pack combat, each creature in combat may play a combat action, although they do not need to do so (unless compelled to do so by
forced play). The player must select which card is being played by whom (while they are face down).
6.6.3 Playing for prey
Whenever a prey creature needs to play a Combat Action, a player not in combat against it plays for it from their combat hand. Only
one player can play for prey each round, but which player that is can change between rounds. If the available players cannot agree
between themselves, decide randomly between those that want to play for prey.
When an Enemy or Victim can play multiple Combat Actions (e.g, Pentex Forestry Team, Zmei), all combat actions it plays during a
single combat round must come from the same player’s hand. If prey is in a pack action, all the cards for creatures in the pack action
must come from the same player.
6.6.4 Umbra-only Combat Actions
Combat Actions which must be played in the Umbra require both the creature playing the card and the target (if any) to be in the
Umbra. Spirits normally exist in both the real world and Um

6.6.5 Alternate Combat Actions
Certain non-combat cards (i.e. sept cards) are played as combat actions, or played in place of combat actions. If you can play
Multiple Combat Actions in a round, you may Alternate Combat actions for all or some of them, up to the total allowed.
● A card or ability that is played as a Combat Action (e.g. Wasp Talons, Wanchese’s Bow) is considered a legal Combat
Action. It can be dodged, or Distracted, and bluffs will not work against the user.
● Alternative Combat Actions are played at the end of the Reveal Step. Choose a target as they are played.
● All Alternative Combat Actions are considered Instinctive.

6.6.6 Restricted, forced and random play
6.6.6a Restricted play
If a card restricts a creature to playing Combat Actions which meet certain Rage restrictions (e.g Catfeet, Drattosi), any other Combat
Action played by the creature is illegal. The restrictions are absolute: a creature that is restricted to Rage 1 Combat Actions cannot
play Combat Actions without a Rage requirement (or rather, such cards are illegal).
Restricted Play does NOT require you play a card in a given round. It does mean if you play anything, it must meet the restriction (else
be considered illegal).
If you have no cards you can play legally due to the requirements of Restricted Play, this does NOT count as being prevented from
playing a combat action for abilities like Gloom-at-Midnight or for playing Instinctive Combat Actions.
6.6.6b Forced play
Forced play requires you to play a card every round you are forced to play, if you have any Combat cards available. (see also Can’t vs
Must effects) This can force you to play an illegal card.

- You cannot play Alternate Combat Actions while affected by Forced Play effects.
- If you are part of a pack action, you may select cards for creatures unaffected by Forced Play effects first, then for all
creatures affected by forced play. If multiple creatures are affected by forced play, you may have them play their forced
cards in any order.
- You can be affected by multiple Forced Play and Restricted Play effects. If the revealed card does not meet ALL the
conditions of the Forced Play and Restricted Play effects, it is illegal.

6.6.6c Random play
- Random play is a specific type of forced play. For each card a creature must play randomly, a random card is picked from
the player’s combat hand. Targets will be chosen as normal in next step.
- Random cards can be illegal cards (including Combat Events) and are handled normally in the Establish-bluff step
- If a prey creature is made to play randomly, also decide randomly which player (excluding the opposing player) will play
for all prey this round, even if that player has nothing the prey can legally play.

6.7 TARGETING STEP OPTIONS
Each combat card played in the previous step is assigned a target. Where one side has pack combat, the opponent of the packcombat declares which creature his Combat Action(s) target. When both sides of combat are using pack actions, targets are assigned
in order: the attacking pack chooses targets for one of its creatures, then the defending pack chooses one of its creature’s targets,
and this repeats until all creatures in combat have been given a target.

6.8 REVEAL STEP OPTIONS
At the end of the Reveal Step, after normal Combat Actions have been revealed, there is an additional ministep in which Feinting,
Alternative Combat Actions and Instinctive Combat Actions can be played (if available to creatures in combat). All additional cards
played during Reveal are played face up.
If creatures can play multiple Combat Actions due to another effect, those additional actions may be played via Feinting or as
Instinctive Combat Actions when allowed.
Forced and Restricted play effects still apply to card selection for Feints and Instinctive cards.
The order is:
1. Any creature which can and chooses to use feinting plays a combat card
2. Any creature which can and chooses to use an Alternative Combat Action plays it now
3. Any creature which is prevented from playing Combat Actions (either specifically or prevented from taking any action)
may play an Instinctive Combat Action if one is available to it.
4. Targets are chosen for cards played during this mini-step

6.8.1 Feinting
An ability which allows a creature to play a Combat Action after other creatures have revealed their Combat Actions. E.g. Feint, Dr.
Spencer. After you have seen your opponents cards, you do NOT have to play a card unless another effect requires you to do so.
If you choose to play a card, you may play as many Combat Cards as you may do so. Normally that is one. See Playing Multiple
Combat Actions.
All cards are played face up during Reveal step, so playing another Feint during Reveal will not allow you Feint a second time.
6.8.2 Instinctive Combat Action
A Combat Action which can be played if the user is “stymied” (prevented from playing actions or Combat Action). Alternate Combat
Actions may all be played as Instinctives. You can only use Instinctive Actions if you were prevented from playing a combat card,
NOT if you voluntarily played no card in the normal play sequence.
You may only play an Instinctive Action if you are the target of a card. Reminder: blocks/dodges have no target at this step, so do not
count as targetting you.
If you choose to play a card, you may play as many Instinctive Combat Cards as abilities let you. Normally that is one. See Playing
Multiple Combat Actions.
Cards that they are Instinctive Combat Actions may be played as normal combat cards following the regular combat card timing. You
are not required to use them ONLY as Instinctive cards.

6.9 BLUFF STEP OPTIONS
All Combat Actions have requirements. Normally this is a Rage requirement, although some cards have instead a Gnosis requirement
and there may also be additional conditions (e.g. “crinos form only”). See also Restricted Play. If those are requirements are not met,
Combat Actions may be discarded in this step.
Special abilities of Combat Actions do not resolve if they were discarded in this step unless they specifically state they occur at a
different time.

6.91. Illegal cards
Illegal cards are determined in the Establish-Bluff step: nothing after this point can change whether a card is legal or not. Any CombatActions which the user does not meet the non-Rage requirements and conditions
for are considered illegal Combat Actions. It is also possible to play Combat Events
face down, and these are considered illegal cards too. Illegal cards are immediately
discarded when revealed. Illegal cards are NOT considered “cards played” for
purposes of frenzy, ending combat etc.
Anything that is NOT Rage and is REQUIRED to play a combat action is a non-Rage re-
quirement. This includes cards that require Gnosis instead of Rage. Some cards may
state that they will do effect Y if you meet X requirement. Those are not requirement
for determining if the card can be played at all. They will just provide the additional
benefit if you meet X requirement.
If you failed to meet the requirements of Restricted or Forced Play effects, that will
also make a card illegal.
Discard all illegal cards before determining if bluffs will succeed or fail.

6.9.2 Bluffs
Creatures can try to perform mighty feats in combat beyond their normal abilities -
specifically it is possible to play Combat Actions which require more Rage than a creature has. This is known as bluffing.
A bluff succeeds if:
• it has a target and the target also bluffed OR target played no legal cards
• OR it has no target and no creature targeted it with a non-bluffed Combat Action this round
Otherwise the bluff fails and it is discarded. Nothing after this point can change whether a card is bluffed or not.

6.10 RESOLUTION STEP OPTIONS
6.10.1 Fast Striking & Slow Striking
Fast Striking and Slow Striking are keywords applied to Combat Actions. If a Combat Action has neither of these keywords, it resoves
at normal speed.
• Fast Striking Combat Actions resolve before normal Combat Actions, which resolve before Slow Striking Combat Actions.
• There is no opportunity to use card effects between resolution, except for those which trigger off damage dealt.
• A creature removed from combat (including killed) must discard any unresolved Combat Actions they played this round.
• Combat Actions are unaffected by Combat Actions slower than themselves (e.g. a Fast Strike cannot be dodged by a
Fancy Footwork - unless that Fancy Footwork was itself Fast Striking due to, for instance, Spirit of the Fray).
Combat Actions cannot be given more than one of each of these keywords. Combat Actions with both Fast Striking and Slow Striking
act at normal speed.

6.10.2 Dodges and Blocks
Dodges and Blocks are ways of preventing damage from Combat Actions (they do not work on damage from other sources). If you
dodge an attack, all damage from it is prevented. Blocks prevent a specified amount of damage, up to the total damage dealt. Note
that Combat Actions that dodge or block do not prevent damage from attacks at a faster speed. They may prevent damage from
slower actions.
Definition: Unblockable - Blocks have no effect on this attack.
Definition: Undodgeable - Dodges have no effect on this attack.
Dodges and blocks that do no damage have no target. You decare one during targeting (so it is not obvious you are playing a block
or dodge), but they are not actually targeting those creatures. You do not choose what card you will Dodge or Block until you would
resolve your card.
Some cards both attack AND block/dodge at same time (example: Evade and Strike). When you declare targets for these types of
cards, they DO have a target who will be affected by the damage when the card resolves. You do not have to dodge/block the target
of the attack portion of the card, you may still choose what card you block/dodge when it resolves.

6.10.3 Redirecting attacks
Some abilities allow you to redirect an damage card from one creature to another as it resolves . Redirect abilities will specify when
they are used and who the damage is redirected to.
- Redirection effects are not considered attacks by the creature using them. The attack is still considered to come from
the creature that initially played it, even if the damage is redirected back onto the creature that played it. Effects on the
damage card which are not reliant on damaging its target take effect normally.
- Redirection takes place after dodges, blocks. It takes place before other cards which affect Damage Cards.
- The same damage can be redirected more than once in a combat.
Redirected damage cards do not damage their original target. Ignore all damage effects on cards until the damage will
not be redirected again.
- Some redirection abilities substitute the new creature for old. This has no effect if both creatures are in combat. If the
new creature was not originally in combat, the original target is removed from combat: if this removal is prevented, the
new creature still joins combat and the damage is still redirected.

6.10.4 Parting shots
A creature using a Combat Action that removes it from combat (or makes it step sideways) is still affected by Combat Actions
targeting him that resolve at the same time.

6.11 FRENZY
Frenzy is when a character loses rational control of his combat instinct. There are several types of frenzy in Rage:
• Frenzy (aka, a full frenzy): a creature is totally consumed by bloodlust and the desire to kill.
• Limited frenzy (e.g., a Battle Fervor): the creature has at least a little control over his actions.
• Fox frenzy: the creature instinctively flees the combat.
Cards that just say they send a creature into frenzy mean “full frenzy” unless otherwise specified in the text or errata of the card.

6.11.1 Common rules
Limited frenzies and Fox frenzies are limited to the abilities listed on the card and the effects common to all frenzies. Those
effects are:
● Unless a card specifically states otherwise, Allies and Prey may not frenzy. Card abilities which incite frenzies will not
work on them, unless the card specifically says it will work on Allies or Prey.
● A creature may not “double-frenzy” and draw multiple frenzy cards; a creature may only be affected by one frenzy at a time.
● When a creature frenzies, any cards drawn for the frenzy are placed in your combat hand. They may be used both by the
frenzied creature and any packmates in a pack action with him.
● A frenzied creature may not play Gifts. Gifts played before the creature frenzied are not affected.
● If a frenzied character is forced back into Breed form, frenzy continues in that form. They will flip to Crinos as normal
when they take additional damage.

6.11.2 Ending a frenzy
- Frenzy ends either when the frenzy is cancelled, combat ends, the frenzied creature is removed from combat (by death
or otherwise) or it is out of playable Combat Actions (see below for longer explanation).
- When a frenzy ends, the player must immediately discard a number of combat cards equal to the number of cards drawn
for the frenzy. The cards discarded are randomly selected from the player’s combat hand. If this is more card than are
currently in your hand, just discard the whole hand. Nothing additional happens.

For purposes of ending a Frenzy, one of your pack is deemed out of playable Combat Actions if:
1. the creature did not play a combat action this round AND
2. you do not have a Combat Action in your combat hand that the creature can play next round.
This is checked at the end of each round, just before the attacker decides if they will withdraw or not; if this effect will end a frenzy,
reveal your hand to all opponents for confirmation.

6.11.3 Full frenzy additional rules
The following effects apply to full frenzy only. Sept cards which incite Frenzies will incite a full frenzy when used on creatures. The
Frenzy Combat Event sends a creature into full frenzy.
● The creature immediately changes to crinos or battle Form (if possible).●
- At the start of the frenzy, the creature draws a number of additional combat cards equal to her current Rage score in
crinos or battle Form.
- Attackers may not withdraw from a combat when any creature is fully frenzied.
- A fully frenzied creature must play every Combat Action that it can, including bluffs. This is a type of Forced Play.
- If a fully frenzied creature is flipped to Breed form and dies as a result, it will flip back to Crinos the next time it takes
damage. It’s still dead, regardless.
- A Fully frenzied creature who takes enough damage to kill it is dead, but it is just too angry to realize it. Cards which
trigger on a creature’s death must be played at the moment it dies, even though it may keep fighting. Healing the damage
after a creature is dead will not stop the creature dying. Once the Combat or frenzy ends, the creature will fight no more
(and will go into the Victory Pile of the pack that killed it, if any). The creature also stops fighting if it has total damage
equal to its Health plus Rage, taken from when the creature frenzied (after flipping to crinos): this is referred to as the
“hacked apart” level (i.e. when the creature is in too many pieces to fight on). The amount of damage needed to “hack
apart” a creature is determined when the frenzy starts. If its Rage or Health is reduced or increased during the combat, it
won’t change how much damage is required to hack it apart.
- Abilities which directly increase Rage will increase the number of cards drawn in frenzy and how much damage it takes
to hack apart a creature. (e.g. Might of Thor, Beast-of-War) Abilities which state the creature plays “cards at +X Rage”
(e.g. battle Song, Gibbous Moon) do not increase the number of cards drawn for frenzy or raise the hacked apart level.
Similarly, items which allow a creature to “play combat actions of X Rage or less” (e.g. most Firearms), do not affect
how many cards the creature draws for frenzy nor increase its hacked apart level.



Combat Events

A quick reminder: all Combat
Events are Combat Restricted.
Combat Events stay in play
until their effect ends.
